# Homework 10

Mark Archual | MTH 515

Dr. Scott | Real Analysis

4/24/19

## Problem 7.5.4

### Original Solution

If $\int^x_a f = F(x) = 0$ then $F'(x) = f(x) = 0$ so there is no rate of change on the interval, or $f(x) = 0$.

If $f$ is not continuous, then it may have a high number of discontinuities such that it fails to be integrable, which is a requirement of the fundamental theorem of calculus.

### Self-Evaluation

My answer matches the solution provided.

## Problem 7.5.8

#### _Part A_

$L(1) = \int^1_1 \frac{1}{t} dt$, $\frac{1}{t}$ is continuous and integrable so $L$ is differentiable.

$$L'(x) = 0$$

#### _Part B_

$$L(xy) = \int^{xy}_1 \frac{1}{t} dt = \int^x_1 \frac{1}{t} + \int^{xy}_x \frac{1}{t}$$

The first integral is equivalent to $L(x)$.  On the second integral, use u-substitution to produce an integral of the form

$$\int^y_1 \frac{1}{u} = L(y)$$

where $ u = \frac{t}{x}$ and $du = \frac{1}{x}dt$

so
$$ L(xy) = L(x) + L(y)$$

#### _Part C_

Using the previous result,

$$L(y*\frac{x}{y}) = L(y) + L(\frac{x}{y})$$

which simplifies to

$$L(x) - L(y) = L(\frac{x}{y})$$

#### _Part D_

Attempting to apply the Monotone Convergence Theorem $\ldots$

> Show that the sequence is bounded

The components of $\gamma_n$ are each monotone.

$$\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} (\frac{1}{n})$$ is monotonically increasing.

Similarly,

$$\int^{n+1}_1 \frac{1}{t} > \int^{n}_1 \frac{1}{t}$$

So $\gamma_n$ is monotonically increasing.

> Show that the sequence is bounded

The sequence is bounded because the expression $\int^x_1 \frac{1}{t}$ is accumulating faster than $\sum_{n=1}^{\infty} (\frac{1}{n})$

In other words,

$ \sum_{n=1}^{\infty} (\frac{1}{n}) < \int^{n}_1 \frac{1}{t}$

so $\gamma_n$ is bounded.

By the Monotone Convergence Theorem, $\gamma_n$ converges.

#### _Part E_

### Original Solution

I had trouble on this one.  I couldn't quite see how to manipulate the sequence to get it to match the desired solution.

### Self-Evaluation

#### _Part B_

My approach was different, and I used a u-sub to get the integral to work out.  Also I had a typo in the final line which is fixed. 

#### _Part D_

Just a different style of explanation, but I believe our solutions are both on the same page.

#### _Part E_

Thinking of $\gamma_{2n}$ as a subsequence really helped see why the limit would converge.  However I do not think I would have thought to use _Part C_ in the way it is presented.  Also I think the solution has a typo and it should be $L(2n) - L(n)$ 

## External References

I had some help with the [u-substitution on 7.5.8, Part C](https://www.whitman.edu/mathematics/calculus_late_online/section09.02.html)
